Add CFD protocol explanation blog post (#136)
comit-network/comit.network: blog/2022-11-01-cfd-protocol-explained.md

---
title: "ItchySats - CFD protocol explained"
author: lucas
author_url: https://github.com/luckysori
author_image_url: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/9418575v=4
tags: [bitcoin,defi,cfds]
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

## Looking under the hood

<!-- TODO: Insert relevant header image -->

At the end of 2021, we shared with you our plans to create [the most
awesome Bitcoin

> DEX](https://itchysats.medium.com/itchysats-roadmap-to-the-most-awesome-bitcoin-dex-464a42bf4881).

Reviewer: Weird use of newlines.

<!--truncate-->

## Opening a CFD

You may have seen this screen before if you've used `itchysats` in the past.
You are about to take an offer from the maker you are connected to.

<!-- TODO: Insert itchysats screenshot -->

You click on the button and the UI says that a new CFD is in contract set up.
After a few seconds, the CFD transitions to a new `Open` state and you can see that a transaction has been broadcast.
Everything seems to be working, but you have no idea what has just happened.

### Setting up the contract

Clicking on the button sends a message to the maker telling them that you want to take their CFD with your chosen leverage.
If they accept this request, the applications start the `contract_setup`: a multi-message exchange of public keys, addresses and signatures which will enable the opening of the CFD.

We refrain from specifying the messages here for clarity, but we encourage you to read the code if you want even more details.
Our CFD protocol library lives in a separate repository: [maia](github.com/comit-network/maia).

Instead, we will focus on the output of these rounds of communication: the building blocks of our CFD.

#### Lock transaction

> Both parties involved in the CFD need to lock up some coins on the blockchain if the protocol is to be able to enforce the outcome of the bet[^1].

Reviewer: This use of `if` doesn't compute for me?

During `rollover`, they produce a new `commitment_transaction_1` and a new collection of CETs based on a new `announcement` from `olivia`.
Since they have the means to publish fully signed `commitment_transaction`s, they can eventually publish `commitment_transaction_1` and settle the CFD based on a newer `attestation` from `olivia`.

##### Punish transaction

But, what happens if either party decides to publish an old `commitment_transaction_0` and settle the CFD based on an old BTC price attested by the oracle?
That would defeat the purpose of rolling over the CFD.
This is where the revocation mechanism comes in.

A `commitment_transaction`'s `dlc_output` can actually be spent in one more way.
In full, the `commitment_transaction` can be spent with:

    1. A series of CETs unlocked by one of `olivia`'s `attestation`s.
    2. A `refund_transaction` that can only be published at least some time after `olivia` has published the relevant `attestation`.
    3. One `punishment_transaction` per party, which can be constructed unilaterally if one's counterparty publishes a revoked `commitment_transaction`.

>     This transaction allows the aggrieved party.

Reviewer: Missing 2nd half of the sentence?

During `contract_setup` and every subsequent `rollover`, parties work together to add another spending condition to the `dlc_output`.
They each generate a revocation keypair `(r, R)` and a publication keypair `(p, P)` and share the public keys with each other.
The `dlc_output` is no longer a simple 2-of-2 multisig on their public keys `A` and `B`.
It also includes:

    1. A way for the maker to spend it with knowledge of `a`, `r_maker` and `p_maker`.

>     1. A way for the taker to spend it with knowledge of `b`, `r_taker` and `p_taker`.

Reviewer: Perhaps we should reiterate here that `a` = `maker` and `b` = `taker`.

> Instead of exchanging regular signatures on the `commitment_transactions` with each other, each constructs an adaptor signature which when encrypted and published would leak the other party's publishing secret key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of exchanging regular signatures on the `commitment_transactions` with each other, each constructs an adaptor signature which when decrypted and published would leak the other party's publishing secret key.
```

For example, the taker encrypts under `P_maker` their signature for their public key `B` on the `commitment_transaction`.

Additionally, every time after a contract `rollover` is completed, both parties must exchange their revocation _secret_ keys.
With all this in place, maker and taker know that they are protected against a counterparty who attempts to publish a revoked (not produced by the most recent `rollover` or `contract_setup`) `commitment_transaction`.

> As soon as they spot it on the blockchain, they can learn the other party's publishing secret key `p`, take the corresponding counterparty revocation secret key `r` that they learnt after rolling over and construct and sign a transaction which gives them all the coins in the `dlc_output`.

Reviewer: If this is true then I think there is a mixup on line 176 and 177 where we have `r_maker` and `p_maker` on the same spending path? Shouldn't one of those belong to the other?

Author: I think the error is in 176 and 177. To punish you need to know: your own signing key: the counterparty's revocation key, learnt after rolling over: and the counterparty's publishing key, leaked when they try to cheat.

So I think this section is right. I'll fix the other one!

As an example, we can imagine maker and taker agreeing to roll over the CFD because they're both optimistic that the price movement of BTC will benefit them if they wait longer.
During `contract_setup`, they created and signed `commitment_transaction_0` and a whole set of CETs along with it.
During `rollover`, they produce a new `commitment_transaction_1` and a new collection of CETs based on a new `announcement` from `olivia`.
Since they have the means to publish fully signed `commitment_transaction`s, they can eventually publish `commitment_transaction_1` and settle the CFD based on a newer `attestation` from `olivia`.

##### Punish transaction

But, what happens if either party decides to publish an old `commitment_transaction_0` and settle the CFD based on an old BTC price attested by the oracle?
That would defeat the purpose of rolling over the CFD.
This is where the revocation mechanism comes in.

A `commitment_transaction`'s `dlc_output` can actually be spent in one more way.
In full, the `commitment_transaction` can be spent with:

    1. A series of CETs unlocked by one of `olivia`'s `attestation`s.

>     2. A `refund_transaction` that can only be published at least some time after `olivia` has published the relevant `attestation`.

Reviewer 2: This sounds like that the refund transaction depends on the actual attestation. 
Can we rephrase this please? Maybe this: 

```suggestion
    2. A `refund_transaction` that can only be published at least some time after `olivia` should have published the relevant `attestation`.
```

Author: Since this sentence is just a recap I've chosen to modify the content and not just the style.

    This transaction allows the aggrieved party to claim all the coins in the `dlc_output`.

During `contract_setup` and every subsequent `rollover`, parties work together to add another spending condition to the `dlc_output`.
They each generate a revocation keypair `(r, R)` and a publishing keypair `(p, P)` and share the public keys with each other.
The `dlc_output` is no longer a simple 2-of-2 multisig on their public keys `A` and `B`.
It also includes:

    1. A way for the maker to spend it with knowledge of their own secret key `a`, `r_taker` and `p_taker`.
    1. A way for the taker to spend it with knowledge of their own secret key `b`, `r_maker` and `p_maker`.

Instead of exchanging regular signatures on the `commitment_transaction`, they create one adaptor signature each.
For example, the taker encrypts under `P_maker` their signature for their public key `B` on the `commitment_transaction`.
Later on, the maker can decrypt the taker's adaptor signature using the publishing secret key `p_maker`.
If they eventually publish the `commitment_transaction` using the decrypted signature, they leak `p_maker` to the taker.

> Additionally, every time after a contract `rollover` is completed, both parties must exchange their revocation _secret_ keys.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention the edge case where one party does not share the revocation secrets?

Author: Good point. I'll add something about that!

    1. A series of CETs unlocked by one of `olivia`'s `attestation`s.
    2. A `refund_transaction` that can only be published at least some time after `olivia` has published the relevant `attestation`.
    3. One `punishment_transaction` per party, which can be constructed unilaterally if one's counterparty publishes a revoked `commitment_transaction`.
    This transaction allows the aggrieved party to claim all the coins in the `dlc_output`.

During `contract_setup` and every subsequent `rollover`, parties work together to add another spending condition to the `dlc_output`.
They each generate a revocation keypair `(r, R)` and a publication keypair `(p, P)` and share the public keys with each other.
The `dlc_output` is no longer a simple 2-of-2 multisig on their public keys `A` and `B`.
It also includes:

    1. A way for the maker to spend it with knowledge of their own secret key `a`, `r_taker` and `p_taker`.
    1. A way for the taker to spend it with knowledge of their own secret key `b`, `r_maker` and `p_maker`.

> Instead of exchanging regular signatures on the `commitment_transactions` with each other, each constructs an adaptor signature which when decrypted and published would leak the other party's publishing secret key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of exchanging regular signatures on the `commitment_transactions` with each other, both construct an adaptor signature which when decrypted and published leaks the other party's publishing secret key.
```

Perhaps slightly simpler?

Also, shouldn't broadcasting commit leak _your own_ publishing key, and not the one from the other party?

Assuming I am the maker, I already know my own secret key and learned the revocation key during rollover. All I am missing is the other taker's publish key. If the taker broadcasts an old state, I need to be able to learn that key. Hence, shouldn't the sentence above say:

> which when decrypted and published leaks your own publishing secret key to the other party.

Author: What I'm trying to say is that the adaptor signature each of them constructs would leak the other party's publishing secret key when published by their counterparty.

I like your simplification. Maybe I'll rewrite this bit so that it's more obvious.

    This transaction allows the aggrieved party to claim all the coins in the `dlc_output`.

During `contract_setup` and every subsequent `rollover`, parties work together to add another spending condition to the `dlc_output`.
They each generate a revocation keypair `(r, R)` and a publishing keypair `(p, P)` and share the public keys with each other.
The `dlc_output` is no longer a simple 2-of-2 multisig on their public keys `A` and `B`.
It also includes:

    1. A way for the maker to spend it with knowledge of their own secret key `a`, `r_taker` and `p_taker`.
    1. A way for the taker to spend it with knowledge of their own secret key `b`, `r_maker` and `p_maker`.

Instead of exchanging regular signatures on the `commitment_transaction`, they create one adaptor signature each.
For example, the taker encrypts under `P_maker` their signature for their public key `B` on the `commitment_transaction`.
Later on, the maker can decrypt the taker's adaptor signature using the publishing secret key `p_maker`.

> If they eventually publish the `commitment_transaction` using the decrypted signature, they leak `p_maker` to the taker.

Author: Thanks!

Are you asking how do we use `p_maker` when spending the `commit_transaction` output in the `punish_transaction`? If so, we make a new signature with `p_maker` (and `b` and `r_maker` too). I was hoping to imply this with the line above:

```markdown
1. A way for the taker to spend it with knowledge of their own secret key `b`, `r_maker` and `p_maker`.
```

> If they eventually publish the `commitment_transaction` using the decrypted signature, they leak `p_maker` to the taker.

Author: We could've pre-computed the `punish_transaction` and exchanged adaptor signatures on it. That might be preferable in terms of privacy (the contract is a 2-of-2 multisig again), but it means we need more data exchange and more things to remember.
